source/getting-started/tutorials/index.md, before:

# Tutorials

The AMDC Platform can be intimidating for newcomers due to the complexity of the hardware and firmware.
Tutorials are provided to introduce users to the platform in a structured way so that they can ease into the depths of the system.

```{seealso}
After completing these tutorials, check out the [](../user-guide/index.md) for more advanced features!
```

These tutorials are intended to be followed early in one's adventures with the AMDC Platform.
Each tutorial has a clear singular aim and can often be completed within an hour.

| Tutorial Name | Aim / Goal / Outcome |
|---|---|
| [Blink](blink/index.md) | Run the baseline firmware on the AMDC hardware. |
| [Hardware Commands](hw-commands/index.md) | Run built-in commands to control the AMDC drive I/O. |
| [Voltage Source Inverter](vsi/index.md) | Develop control code for 3-phase voltage source inverter (VSI). |
| [Profiling Tasks](profiling-tasks/index.md) | Determine code performance by using task timing statistics. |

```{toctree}
:hidden:

Blink <blink/index>
Hardware Commands <hw-commands/index>
Voltage Source Inverter <vsi/index>
Profiling Tasks <profiling-tasks/index>
```

Commit message:

Add Meet AMDC tutorial and images

source/getting-started/tutorials/index.md, after:

# Tutorials

The AMDC Platform can be intimidating for newcomers due to the complexity of the hardware and firmware.
Tutorials are provided to introduce users to the platform in a structured way so that they can ease into the depths of the system.

```{seealso}
After completing these tutorials, check out the [](../user-guide/index.md) for more advanced features!
```

These tutorials are intended to be followed early in one's adventures with the AMDC Platform.
Each tutorial has a clear singular aim and can often be completed within an hour.

| Tutorial Name | Aim / Goal / Outcome |
|---|---|
| [Meet the AMDC](meet-amdc/index.md) | Power on the AMDC and explore the I/O. |
| [Blink](blink/index.md) | Run the baseline firmware on the AMDC hardware. |
| [Hardware Commands](hw-commands/index.md) | Run built-in commands to control the AMDC drive I/O. |
| [Voltage Source Inverter](vsi/index.md) | Develop control code for 3-phase voltage source inverter (VSI). |
| [Profiling Tasks](profiling-tasks/index.md) | Determine code performance by using task timing statistics. |

```{toctree}
:hidden:

Meet the AMDC <meet-amdc/index>
Blink <blink/index>
Hardware Commands <hw-commands/index>
Voltage Source Inverter <vsi/index>
Profiling Tasks <profiling-tasks/index>
```
